---
layout: page
title: Project
---


### DISHA - Unified Dashboard for monitoring schemes across 20 ministries
 NIC | Ministry of Rural Development

Co-wrote the Software Requirement Specifications for DISHA Portal - a smart governance tool developed for MPs and MLAs for monitoring of implementation of various Programmes and Schemes of different Ministries in their constituency through a single portal. As on date, integration of datasets of 41 programmes and schemes of 20 Ministries has been achieved on this Portal. 

The Portal was inaugrated by the Prime Minister of India.

___


### Designing National MIS system for a government scheme
NIC | Ministry of Rural Development

[**[website]**](http://kaushalpragati.nic.in/) [**[Politics of KPIs]**](http://schd.ws/hosted_files/2017ict4dconference/b5/Politics%20of%20KPIs.pdf)

Helped design the input forms, Key Performance Indices (KPIs), reports and visualization dashboards for DDUGKY's monitoring and evaluation.
Key focus on UX. Paritcipatory approach along with multiple stakeholder interviews and field visits. 
I learned about the micro-politics that goes into designing KPIs, how top-down nature of governance manifested in design and other interesting things which I converted into a talk at ICT4D 2016.

___

### Kaushal Panjee - end to end Mobilization platform for Rural Skilling
NIC | Ministry of Rural Development

[**[website]**](http://kaushalpanjee.nic.in)

Helped ideate, design, manage developers and roll-out "Kaushal Panjee" - a web/app platform to capture aptitude, aspirations and demographics
of beneficiaries interested in under-going skilling. Training Partners can access the database to filter for candidates as per their needs.
Focussed on ensuring effective usage of data collected through reports, in-built SMS campaign tool and capacity building.
I learned first-hand the institutional constraints, context and conversation in which a technology products take shape in a government settings.

Platform sees 6000+ registrations a day.

___

### Investigating rural/urban bias in district target allocation
IFMR LEAD | Ministry of Rural Development

With the help of data, investigated a bias in setting up of District targets in skill development scheme. It was found that more urban the District, the more targets were allocated. Created an index using Socio-Economic Caste Census 2011 and Census 2011 data to setup further targets in a data-driven manner based on the `need` of the District.

Tool has been used to successfuly rectify allocation of targets in the State of Maharastra and Kerala.

___

### IAS officers and the notorious transfer culture
HowIndiaLives and Livemint

[**[Link]**](http://www.livemint.com/Politics/jSvUSWHe6tq0zBTRKENycJ/IAS-officers-and-the-notorious-transfer-culture.html)

Designed and developed an interactive dashboard that shows which states and departments transfer their IAS officers the most and which ones the least. The dashboard is online and visualizations appeared in print as well. Worked in conjuction with the good folks at HowIndiaLives.

___

## Machine Learning and Data

### EVOML - Evolutionary Algorithms for Machine Learning
Worked with Bhanu Pratap Singh

Published in Data Efficient Machine Learning, ICML 2016

[**[Paper]**](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1610.00465.pdf.) [[**code**]](https://github.com/EvoML/EvoML)

Bagging is a popular technique in ML in which multiple datasets are generated by randomly sampling rows with replacement from the original dataset. Research has been done to explore use of other sampling methods (Eg error-based sampling). Instead of figuring out “which” sampling and combination of training sets make a bagged ensemble better, we tried to fix the definition of “better” through fitness functions, and allowed the bootstrapped training sets to evolve themselves in order to align with the definition using evolutionary algorithms. For reproducibility :P the entire code is published on Github.

___

### Badfish - A python library to investiagate patterns in missing data.
Co-developed with Deshana Desai 

[**[pypi]**](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/badfish/0.1.2) [[**Github**]](http://github.com/harshnisar/badfish)

Badfish introduces MissFrame, a wrapper over pandas DataFrame, to wrangle through and investigate missing data. It opens an easy to use API to summarize and explore patterns in missingness. Supports counts, correlations, pattern plots and frequency mining to explore which columns go missing together. Helpful in investigating survey outputs, ETL etc

___

### Role of Temporal Diversity in Inferring Social Ties Based on Spatio-Temporal Data
Worked along with Deshana Desai and Rishab Bhardwaj

Published in ACM IKDD Conference on Data Science, 2017

[**[paper]**](https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3041836) [**[code]**](https://github.com/deshanadesai/Geospat) 

We introduce DAIICT Spatio-Temporal Network (DSSN), a spatiotemporal dataset of 0.7 million data points of continuous location data logged at an interval of every 2 minutes by mobile phones of 46 subjects. Our research is focused at inferring relationship strength between students based on the spatiotemporal data and comparing the results with the self-reported data. In that pursuit we introduce Temporal Diversity, which we show to be superior in its contribution to predicting relationship.
strength than its counterparts.

___

### Recommender System - Personalized Email Digest of Job Openings
Supervised by Varun Aggarwal at Aspiring Minds.

Aspiringminds sends an email digest of recent jobs to its subscribers. The goal was to increase the click-through and ROI (sending emails at scale was expensive) by personalizing the jobs being sent in the digest. I tried both content based methods and collaborative filtering.  My final model was a logistic regression combining the two methods and some hand-crafted rules. As the final aim was to increase the ROI on emails, I created a model which identified dormant users which could be skipped in the mailing list. 

___

### Labour Market Insights - Investigating the labour market for trends, biases and meritocracy
Supervised by Shashank Srikant, Varun Aggarwal

Worked on one of India’s first economic graphs - connecting standardized skill test scores with employment outcomes. Mined through company’s legacy databases using Python and SQL. Handled processing of more than 100 GB data on a single 8 GB machine. 
Setup various regressions to quantify effect of demographics and skills on employment outcomes. 
Conducted experiments to test various other hypotheses and tested through group differences, residual analysis, clustering and custom visualizations. 
Learnings from the work went into [reports](http://www.aspiringminds.com/sites/default/files/National%20Employability%20Report%20-%20Engineers%2C%20Annual%20Report%202014.pdf) and was covered by all major (news)[https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/over-80-of-engineers-in-india-still-unemployable-survey/story-VHSmdFhsKLBwaKDbagUwEK.html
] portals.

___

### Machine Learning India
co-founded with team at Aspiring Minds.

[Link](http://ml-india.org) [Google Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/?hl=en#!forum/ml-india)

An initiative to bring the machine learning ecosystem in India together. To kickstart the discussion, we analyzed authorship and citations of ML papers from last 15 years and setup an interactive dashboard to highlight the top labs, corporates and institutes contributing to machine learning research from India. The platform now hosts meetups, interviews for academia and corporates etc. 

___

### Google Summer of Code - Tatoeba
Advised by Tomasz Melcer

[link](http://tatoeba.org)

Python (Flask and NLTK)

Tatoeba provides language learners with a crowdsourced corpus of sentences and translations. My work was to explore if we could mine free and open texts of languages (folklore etc) and use that to supplement Tatoeba's corpus. I built language agnostic import tool which mined the sentences. The sentences were ranked by their likelihood of being usable to the corpus before being showed to users through an interface for their final approval.  

___


